# NP Problem
## 3-Partition Problem
Given a multiset S of size $n = 3m$, can S be partitioned into m subsets $S_1$,
      $S_2$, $S_m$ such that the sum of the numbers in each subset is equal?
      What if $S_i$ is between $B/4$ and $B/2$.

# Divide and Conqur
## Repeated doubling
### Loop in link list
How to check if there is a loop in link list in linear time? How to locate the
right position the loop begins? 

# Grpah Algorithm
## MST
### Boruvka's algorithm

    T = empty;
    WHILE G has >= 1 vertex: 
        each vertex of G adds its lightest edge to T;
        the added edges are contracted in G; 
    END WHILE
        

### Prim's algorithm

    T = graph with only the lightest edge;
    FOR i = 2 to n-1:
        add to T the minimum length edge with exact one endpoint in T;
    END FOR

### Kruskal's algorithm

    T = empty
    FOR i = 1 to n-1:
        add to T the shortest edge that does not introduce a cycle;
    END FOR

# Numeric algorithm
## square root algorithm

    double sqrt(double s) {
        double x = s, y = 0;
        while (fabs(x - y) < 0.000001) {
            y = x;
            x = (x + s/x)/2;
        }
        return x;
    }

# Data Structures
## Arrays
Shift an array without only one space.

## List
### Skip list
## Trees
### van Emde Boas tree

## Suffix Array and Suffix Tree
### Find a pattern in text using suffix array in linear time
Build sufix array for string "p#t$", compare suffix 0 with its two neighbors to
see if they match in length |p|. 

# Therorems
## Four-color theorem

# Randomization
## $N$ Professor's Problem
Suppose we have a room of professors and we wish to calculate the average salary
of this group. The only limitation we have, though, is that we must not allow
any professor to learn any information about any of the salaries of the other
professors. This includes knowing the exact value of a person's salary and
knowing if this person's salary is higher or lower or equal. 

Use a serial of random numbers which are generated by a single prime key. 

## Minimum-cut 

