# Words
He had previously conducted his own informal survey, putting red stickers on
servers he believed to be *comatose* — the term engineers use for servers that
are plugged in and using energy even as their processors are doing little if
any computational work. 

An *acrostic* is a poem or other form of writing in which the first letter,
syllable or word of each line, paragraph or other recurring feature in the
text spells out a word or a message.

*Jaguar* a large animal of the cat family, that has yellowish-brown fur with black
rings and spots. Jaguars live in parts of central America.

The *morbidity* rate associated with tonsillectomy is 2% to 4% due to
post-operative bleeding; the *mortality* rate is 1 in 15,000, due to bleeding,
airway obstruction, or anesthesia.

*Tonsillectomy* may be indicated when the patient has multiple bouts of
peritonsillar abscess.

One case of tonsillity, even severe, is generally not enough for most surgeons
to decide tonsillectomy is necessary.

Cohort is a group of people who share a common feature or aspect of behaviour or
(disapproving) a member of a group of people who support another person:

Both Haskell and SML have pattern matching which makes describing a recursive
algorithm a *cinch*.

You could *meander* the archive of scripts for days, and they (usually) work no
matter what OS you run Vim on.

A *missionary* is a person who is sent to a foreign country to teach people about
Christianity. She spoke about her new project with *missionary zeal* (= with
great enthusiasm).

Unlike, say svn status, git status runs *nigh-instantly* even on large projects. 

Overboard: throw sb/sth overboard to get rid of sb/sth that you think is useless
over the side of a boat or a ship into the water.  Huge waves washed him
overboard.  He threw all his old friends overboard once he was promoted.
*go overboard* (informal) to be too excited or enthusiastic about sth or about
doing

Runaway: vehicle or animal is out of control, happening very easily or quickly,
and not able to be controlled.  The film was a *runaway* success.

*Holonym* is a word that names the whole of which a given word is a part; "'hat'
is a holonym for 'brim' and 'crown'".

*Meronym* is a word that names a part of a larger whole; "'brim' and 'crown' are
meronyms of 'hat'" .

*Nidus* is a nest in which spiders or insects deposit their eggs.

*Odds* is the ratio by which one better's wager is greater than that of another.

*Wig* artificial hair, reprimand.

*Spa* water.

*Statutary* health insurer.

*Solipsistic* extreme egocentrism.

John and I have a *score to settle.*

Bob is so naive. He sure doesn't *know the score* (fully informed). I know what
you're trying to do. Oh, yes, I know *what's what*.

*Hang-up* is an emotional preoccupation or an unforeseen obstacle.

You have the *carte blanche*.

*Nerotic* is a person suffering from a *neurosis*.

*Manic* depression is associated with extreme *mood swings* and sudden behavioral
changes.

Is it considered *good form* to eat peppermints in church? (behavior that
conforms to social conventions of the time)

*Spice up* the evening by inviting a belly dancer.

However despite the quantity of money spent on creating a film until the motion
picture actually hits the *box office* and brings in enormous receipts in ticket
sales it is a gamble.

*Epistle* is a letter, esp one that is long, formal, or didactic.

Now one of the Princess's elder sisters, who was very *inquisitive*, had found
out about everything, and went to pay her youngest sister a visit in the ruined
castle.

*Placebo* is a substance containing no medication and prescribed or given to
reinforce a patient's expectation to get well.

What *political disposition* do you take? For example, a capitalist.

*Prozac* is a drug that prolongs the action of *serotonin* in the brain; used as
an *antidepressant*.

He has a *vein* of melancholy in his character.

By inexpensive means; cheaply: traveled to Europe *on the cheap*.

Peerage, luminary, torch bearer.

This new novel is an absorbing family *saga*.

The vivid colours of their *draped* *raiment* and the gold of their earrings
*invested* with a barbaric and *regal* magnificence their figures, stepping out
freely in a shower of broken sunshine.

A *regent* is one who rules during the minority, absence, or disability of a
monarch.

shebang: Noun, an entire system; used in the phrase `the whole shebang`
If you accuse someone of being a hypocrite, you mean that they pretend to have
qualities, beliefs, or feelings that they do not really have.
lefty - who has left-wing political ideas - used to show disapproval

*Nany* is similar to female baby-sitter.

*Seagal* indicates bad movie.

Fear spread through the crowd like a *contagion*, ie quickly and harmfully.

*Dissemination* is the act of disseminating, or the state of being disseminated;
diffusion for propagation and permanence; a scattering or spreading abroad, as
of ideas, beliefs, etc.

# Phrase
NPR reporters in northern and central Japan said staple foods were hard to *come
by* and in some areas gasoline was scarce.

Unlike, say svn status, git status runs *nigh-instantly* even on large projects. 

*Spending spree* is a brief speriod of extravagant spending.

*Bells and whistles* are attractive extra features.

*Make hay* while the sun shines.

New York City is the *Big Apple*.

*Gift of gab* is the ability to talk glibly and persuasively.

I *was hooked on* the StarCraft game.

NPR reporters in northern and central Japan said staple foods were hard to *come
by* and in some areas gasoline was scarce.

CCTV is *closed-circuit television*.

People who are *laid back* get things done, but they do so with a relaxed
attitude rather than a frantic attitude.

This sort of *carnival* appeal gave way to sophisticated messaging via the radio
and television, on which those pitching had more time to craft an informative
appeal and could reach thousands and millions of listeners or viewers in a
vacuum-tube instant. Carnival is a public festival, usually one that happens at
a regular time each year, that involves music and dancing in the streets, for
which people wear colourful clothes.

Truly, people are gathering and chatting, but they're chatting about much more
than last night's date, last week's fashion *faux pas*, or last month's *run-in*
with Mom and Dad.  Faux pas is (plural faux pas ) (from French) an action or a
remark that causes embarrassment because it is not socially correct

Rather, he is important to you because he created Twitter to fill a bona fide
business need, via immediate and intelligent communication, to solve a problem
and enhance a customer experience. *Bona fide* made in good faith without fraud
or deceit; made with earnest intent: SINCERE; neither specious nor counterfeit:
GENUINE.

Others were less than impressed, countering that it would prove itself to be
just another handheld cultural distraction that would only attract the
mindless and meandering youth of this inconsequential informationindulgent
age, eager to click and *cluck* their time away.

Sure, it became the hit with celebrities, newscasters, and even
presidential candidates, enticing millions of citizens to flock to it to
rub virtual elbows with the red carpet crowd, but when the fanfare
passes, so too do some of the *fair-weather* followers.

As a customer survey tool, some businesses ask the *Twitterverse* for opinions
about a recently released product or service (or ask about the lasting value of
    an existing offering).

As a real-time coordination tool, many folks use Twitter to
organize spontaneous business gatherings—also known
as *tweetups*—perhaps to address a troublesome business
problem, to brainstorm a fast plan for a new opportunity,
or just to gather a business team for some well-deserved
downtime.

That's right—in order to break the *oft-bemoaned stigma* that these social
networking tools are just a personal time drain, you'll need to commit now to
the idea that Twitter will be a tool that will offer benefits to you, rather
than wind up as a distraction that keeps you from running your business.

This is just the beginning, of course, but through the use of Twitter,
you tend to gain that coveted *fly on the wall* proximity to see and
hear what others are saying about you, your business, and your products.

In this reporter's humble opinion, perhaps it is a *portent* of things to come.
(portent of sth) sign or warning of a future (often unpleasant) event; omen

The Wangs have surnames *tied up* in China.

All of this, since the beginning, has been some kind of personal *vendetta*?

If you're an early stage *venture capitalist* or *angel investor* there is no
time like the present to declare a bubble, say valuations are out of control and
predict the demise of the tech industry in the very near future.

There is no age gap virtually between us preventing from crossing *germane* to
the challenging issues concerned to China and the world.

You see me, positive and optimistic as always, simply because negative and
pessimistic won't bring you anything valuable but perhaps *procrastinate* and
even destroy for the success.

Hitch had never helped playboys or *scoundrels* whose purpose is merely to
seduce women for *a lay*.

Beijing is bulging as its population has exceeded 17 million, only 1 million to
go to reach the ceiling the city government has set for 2020. The figure breaks
down into 12.04 million holders of Beijing "hukou", or *household registration
certificates*, and 5.1 million *floating population*, sources with the Ministry
of Public Security said at Monday's workshop on the country's management of
migrants.

The ministry also called for simplified procedures for migrants to get their
*temporary residency permits*.

German Chancellor Angela Merkel *put President Vladimir Putin on the spot* on
Saturday, asking if the former KGB spy had cooked breakfast for his wife
Lyudmila to celebrate International Women's Day. 

Russians are also celebrating the end of winter with *Pancake week*, a
pre-Christian carnival of revelry across Russia.

He follows Hitch's plan and acts as if he were Allegra's close friend, staying
with here like a *pea and carrot*.

Allegra is *way out of* Albert's league.

Nero fiddled while Rome burned.
Nero fiddled, but Collidge only snored.

Obama to lay wreath at *Ground Zero*.

"Armed with this information, public-health officials should now be *in a better
position to* encourage behavior changes likely to improve the health of
middle-aged and older people," the researchers wrote.

He was very mad, *green with envy*.

It is the *green-eyed monster* which *doth* mock the meat it feeds on.

What the eye doesn't see, the heart doesn't grieve over.

Thou art like the Epicure, whose belly is sooner filled than his eye. The eye is
bigger than the belly.

Breach for breach, eye for eye, tooth for tooth: as he hath caused blemish in a
man, so shall it be done to him again.

But I say *unto* you, That ye (pl of thou) resist not evil, but whosoever shall
smite thee on *thy* right cheek, trun to him the other also.

I had *come to terms with* the inevitable trip to the oral surgeon.

The Price of Persia is a story about brave hearts, brothership, time machine,
Persian kingdom, love story. The protagonist is Dastan, a orphan adopted by the
King as a prince.

He managed to *subdue* his mounting anger.

Our cartons for *canned* food are not only seaworthy but also strong
enough to protect the goods from possible damage. Restaurants often play
*canned* music. canned: Adjective satellite recorded for broadcast; "a
transcribed announcement"; "canned laughter".

Our flag is raised to the top of a pole by a rope and two pulley.

*loofah* is a long rough bath SPONGE made from the dried fruit of a tropical
plant. 

And then I got really freaked out, and that's when it hit me: how much Barry
looks like Mr. Potato Head.

The newspapers there *pander to* people's interest in crime and violence.

As you can guess, the Picture tab allows you to upload an image, which will
appear next to your user name in *lieu* of the default and nondescript bird
silhouette icon that Twitter assigns you when you create your account.

Come off is to succeed; triumph. John *came off* with flying colors in his final
exams at college.
