# using $\times$ for speed up 
Increasing IT demand has seen 6$\times$ growth of server and 69$\times$ growth
of storage during the last decade.

# Use circled number to explain points of figures
\CircledOne
\CircledTwo
\CircledThree

# quote
Double quote symbol is almost never used in LaTeX, use the following

	``''

Used Separately, they represent left single quote and right single quote,
respectively. If necessary use "\," to separate adjacent double and single
quotes. "\," inserts a small space. But, don't leave any space before or after
"\," command.

# dashes
There are three different sizes of dash by typing 1, 2, or 3 '-'. Usually,
thereis no space before or after a dash. Minus signs are not dashes; they
should appear only in math formulas.

# period
A period ends a sentence unless it follows an uppercase letter. If it is not
the case use a following "\ " or a "\@" to help clarify.

	Tinker et al.\ made the double play.

	The Romans wrote I + I = II\@. Really.

If a sentence period is followed by a right parenthesis or a right quote, then
the peiord's extra space goes after the parenthesis or quote.

	``Beans (lima, etc.)\  have vitamin B\@.''

The same rule holds for question mark (?), exclamation point (!), or colon (:).

# special characters
Ten special characters:

	# $ % & _ { } ~ _ ^

The first 7 can be generated by escaping, whereas the last 3 can be generated
in verbatim environment.

# verbatim
No special characters in verbatim.

	\begin{verbatim}
	special characters #%|&$_\^~ are no longer special.
	\end{verbatim}

A shorter form is "\verb". Its argument is not enclosed in braces, but by a
pair of identical characters.

	The special characters \verb| % ~ ^ % & | are no longer special.

	verbatim* and verb* are the same, but display 'space' specially.

# text-generating commands
Commands have names consisting of a back-slash followed by one or more letters.
The names end when a non-letter, such as digit, punctuation, and special
character, is encounted. Most command names have only lowercase letters.

	\LaTeX \today \ldots

# preventing line breaks
A tilde ~ prevents a line break.

	Mr.~Jones		Figure~\ref{fig:xx}			(1)~gnats

To avoid spliting a word, especailly a name, use mbox

	Doctor \mbox{Longlastnamedoctor}

# Footnotes
There is no extra space around the footnote command, otherwise, unnecessary
space will be introduced.

	Gnus\footnote{A gnu is a big animal.} can be quite a gnusance.

# Formula
Inline formula is surrounded by "\(" and "\)", or "$" and "$". Any space in a
formula environment is ignored.

# ignoreable input
"%" has two uses: ending a line without producing any space in the output, and
comment out texts.

	Doctor Longlast%			->		Doctor Longlastnamedoctor
	namedoctor

# document
Input preceding the "\begin{document}" command is called the preamble. Input
following "\end{document}" is ignored.

# documentclass
Has options: 11pt, 12pt, twoside, and twocolumn

	\documentclass[twocolumn,12pt]{article}

It is a LaTeX convention that optional arguments are enclosed in square
brackets, while mandatory arguments are enclosed in curly braces.

Follows documentclass is usepackage, which can has optional arguments in
brackets as with documentclass. Self-defined commands should be put after
documentclass and usepackage.

# title
tile, author, and date is actually generated by "\maketitle". When date is
missing "\today" is used.
