# Bash
The ex command *:g/re/p* (grep) was the way they documented how to "globally"
"print" lines containing a "regular expression" (re). 

*:... g* is a prefix for "globally" applying a subsequent command to all lines
which match a pattern (regular expression) while *:... v* applies such a command
too all lines which do NOT match the given pattern ("v" from "conVerse").

Get machine type: arch; uname -a

Subshell hack:

    $ cmd0 | ( cmd1;cmd2;cmd3) | cmd4
    $ echo -e "Beijing Shanghai\n HongKong Chongqing" | ( while read wa wb; do echo "$wa to $wb"; done )
    Beijing to Shanghai
    HongKong to Chongqing

script and scriptreplay: record terminal sessions.

    $ script -t 2> timing.log -a output.session
    type commands;
    ...
    ...
    exit
    $ scriptreplay timing.log output.session

Bash process password

    #!/bin/sh
    #Filename: password.sh
    echo -e "Enter password: "
    stty -echo
    read password
    stty echo
    echo
    echo Password read.

Bash arrays

    $ array_var=(1 2 3 4 5 6)
    $ echo ${array_var[0]}
    $ echo ${array_var[*]}

    $ declare -A ass_array
    $ ass_array=([index1]=val1 [index2]=val2)

    $ declare -A fruits_value
    $ fruits_value=([apple]='100dollars' [orange]='150 dollars')
    $ echo "Apple costs ${fruits_value[apple]}"
    Apple costs 100 dollars

    $ declare -a MYRA
    $ MYRA=($(ls -ld DIR))

find: 

    $ find . \( -name "*.txt" -o -name "*.pdf" \) -print
    ./text.pdf
    ./new.txt
    $ find /home/users -path "*slynux*" -print
    /home/users/list/slynux.txt
    /home/users/slynux/eg.css
    $ find . -iregex ".*\(\.py\|\.sh\)$"
    ./test.py
    ./new.PY
    $ find . ! -name "*.txt" -print
    .
    ./next.jpg
    ./test.py
    ./new.PY
    $ find . -type f -user root -exec chown slynux {} \;
    $ find devel/source_path \( -name ".git" -prune \) -o \( -type f -print \)

xargs:

    $ cat cecho.sh
    #!/bin/bash -
    echo "$@ #"
    $ echo "arg1 arg2 arg3" | xargs -n 2 ./cecho.sh
    arg1 arg2 #
    arg3 #
    $ echo -e "arg1\n arg2\n arg3\n" | xargs -I {} ./cecho.sh -p {} -l
    -p arg1 -l #
    -p arg2 -l #
    -p arg3 -l #

Hence we must use -print0 along with find to produce an output with delimited
character null ('\0') whenever we use the find output as the xargs input.

    $ find . -type f -name "*.txt" -print0 | xargs -0 rm -f
    
*tput* and *stty* are utilities that can be used for terminal manipulations.

    tput sc     store the cursor position
    tput rc     restore cursor position
    tput ed     clear rest of current line

    {1..6} {a..z}
    `#!/bin/bash –xv`
    `:(){ :|:& };:`

A function can be exported like environment variables using export export -f fname
While using string comparison, it is best to use double square brackets since use of single
brackets can sometimes lead to errors. `[[ $str1 = $str2 ]]`

# Ubuntu
Ubuntu, hold down the alt key and click and drag anywhere in the window to move
it so that all the buttons are visible

# Thinkpad trackpoint settings:

    # echo "255" > /sys/devices/platform/i8042/serio1/sensitivity 
    # echo "250" > /sys/devices/platform/i8042/serio1/speed

# sgid
The sgid permission for directory means that files created in it the directory
will inherit its group affiliation from the directory, rather than inheriting
it from user.

# inspect hardware

    dmidecode        # get Machine info 
    lsb_release -a   # get Linux distribution info
    hal
    hdparm           # get disks

# make sync clock
> Sometimes when i execute make command, i am getting Clock Skew detected error
> (your build may be incomplete).

This is a classic problem with VMs: it's hard to get an accurate clock when
it's virtual. If this happens, run the following command from time to time:

    /sbin/service ntpd restart

# shutdown server
Use -h option, which requests that the system be either halted or powered off
after it has been brought down, with the  choice  as to which left up to the
system.

    shutdown -h now 

# CentOS Compile New Kernel 
When compile new kernel from old version of CentOS, it is possible that the new
kernel complains about no hard drives found. To solve this, enable the
following two options in kernel config:

    CONFIG_SYSFS_DEPRECATED=y
    CONFIG_SYSFS_DEPRECATED_V2=y

# Ubuntu compile new kernel
After make menuconfig, make, make modules_install, and make install, also
update initramfs using

    $sudo update-initramfs -c -k 3.4.7 # substitute 3.4.7 with your version

# Find network card information

    #lspci | grep -i eth
    02:05.0 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82546EB Gigabit Ethernet
    Controller (Copper) (rev 01)
    02:05.1 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82546EB Gigabit Ethernet
    Controller (Copper) (rev 01)
    03:07.0 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82541GI Gigabit Ethernet
    Controller (rev 05)

# Cool linux tools
http://kkovacs.eu/cool-but-obscure-unix-tools
http://coolshell.cn/articles/7829.html

# Extract file script
git://github.com/lzap/dancepill.git

# Wajig
Wajig is a simplified wrapper to Debian's package management tools including
dpkg and APT. Wajig provides the functionality of apt-get, dpkg, dpkg-deb,
apt-cache and other tools. These tools launch as a subprocess. Wajig also
provides extra functionality beyond that of the stock apt and dpkg tools.  For
example, the command wajig sizes provides a listing of all installed packages
and the amount of disk space they require, from smallest to largest.

# View Linux distribution

	$ cat /etc/*-release
	$ lsb_release -a

# hdparm, get disk information

	$ hdparm -I


# logrotate
http://www.thegeekstuff.com/2010/07/logrotate-examples/

	/etc/logrotate.conf
	man logrotate

# mount debugfs 

  # mount -t debugfs none /sys/kernel/debug/

# Install development man pages

    $ sudo apt-cache search manpages
    $ sudo apt-get install manpages-dev
    $ sudo apt-get install manpages-posix

# dev_t
dev_t typedef as an unsigned bit-or of major and minor dev no.

    MAJORBITS
    MAJOR
    MINOR

# Disable terminal bell in bash and vim

    $ echo "set bell-style none" >> ~/.inputrc
    $ echo "set vb" >> ~/.vimrc

# Decompress bz2 file

    # bunzip2 file.bz2

# Block analysis

    blktrace
    blkparse
    btrecord
    btreplay

# Check if user is root

    if [[ $UID -ne 0 ]]; then
      echo "$0 must run as root"
      exit 1
    fi

# gid of grouped pipeline command

    $ echo -e '#!/bin/bash -\n sleep 120' > sleep-1.sh
    $ echo -e '#!/bin/bash -\n sleep 120' > sleep-2.sh
    $ chmod +x ./sleep-*.sh
    $ (./sleep-1.sh | ./sleep-2.sh) &
    [4]
    14794
    $ echo $!
    14794
    $ ps -ef | grep slee-
    mchen    14795 14794  0 17:49 pts/2    00:00:00 /bin/bash - ./sleep-1.sh
    mchen    14796 14794  0 17:49 pts/2    00:00:00 /bin/bash - ./sleep-2.sh
    mchen    14800 11348  0 17:49 pts/2    00:00:00 grep --color=auto sleep- 

# linux ACPI, CPU governor and frequency
Check available settings:

	$ cat /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu0/cpufreq/scaling_available_governors
	conservative ondemand userspace powersave performance
	$ cat /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu0/cpufreq/scaling_available_frequencies
	2661000 2660000 2527000 2394000 2261000 2128000 1995000 1862000 1729000 1596000

Set governor and frequency

	$ echo "conservative" > /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu0/cpufreq/scaling_governors
	$ echo "2661000" > /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu0/cpufreq/scaling_frequencies

# Make, missing separator
As indicated in the online manual, the most common cause for that error is
that lines are indented with whitespaces when make expects tab characters.

    Correct
    target: 
    \tcmd
    where \t is TAB

    Wrong
    target:
        cmd

# join multiple lines into one

	ls  | xargs echo

# reboot machine using BMC

    $ ipmitool -U root -H i-chevron8 chassis power reset

# Cannot find terminfo entry for 'xterm-256color'

    sudo apt-get install ncurses-term

# Find file of installation

    apt-get install apt-file
    apt-file search file_name

# Change default os after install ubuntu 12

    $sudo vim /etc/default/grub # change default index to the desired one
    $sudo update-grub2

#  Passing an argument through a Makefile

    $ cat Makefile
    OVERRIDING=default
    run:
            echo running with $(ARG) and $(OVERRIDING)
    $ make run
    echo running with  and default
    running with and default
    $ make run ARG=a
    echo running with a and default
    running with a and default
    $ make run ARG=a OVERRIDING="a little more"
    echo running with a and a little more
    running with a and a little more


# bash case fail through
Fail through of bash is only available after bash 4.0

    case a in 
    1) echo ;&
    2) echo ;;
    esac

# user and group

    $ usermod -G groupname username
    $ groups username # view groups belongs to
    $ id username     # view groups names and numeric values
    $ cat /etc/group

Set group

    $ usermod -G groupname username

# set printk level

    $ echo 7 > /proc/sys/kernel/printk

# Easy way to find UID and GID

    cd ~
    ls -ln

# Check linux distribution

    cat /etc/*release*

# Install autopilot

    yum install perl
    yum install perl-CPAN

# Get block size

    /sbin/dumpe2fs /dev/sda | grep 'Block size'

# Get block capacity

    blockdev --getsize /dev/sda

# Fix slow ssh login
debug:

    ssh -vvv user@host

On ssh server

    echo "UseDNS no" >> /etc/ssh/sshd_config
    echo "GSSAPIAuthentication=no" >> /etc/ssh/sshd_config

# Fix encoding problem when ssh

     alias ghadoop='luit -encoding gbk ssh -o GSSAPIAuthentication=no ime@10.12.11.200'

# creat user account

    useradd loginname
    passwd loginname

# move home dir

    usermod -d /search/chenming -m chenming

# Verify that Google Public DNS can resolve the selected hostname

    dig @8.8.8.8 hostname
    nslookup -debug hostname 8.8.8.8
    host hostname
    cat /etc/resolv.conf

# search package

    apt-cache search package_regex
    yum search package_regex

# convert rpm to deb

    sudo apt-get install alien
    sudo alien -i /path/to/file.rpm

# Cross-compiling 

    ./configure --help
    --build=BUILD     configure for building on BUILD [guessed]
    --host=HOST       cross-compile to build programs to run on HOST [BUILD]
    --target=TARGET   configure for building compilers for TARGET [HOST]

# Identifying Open Ports
Find open ports

    $ grep port /etc/services
    $ grep 2432 /etc/services

Few quick methods/programs that we can use to find out running processes and
associated ports

    $ netstat -tulpn

fuser to view process occupying given port

    $ fuser port_num/tcp_or_udp
    $ fuser 50075/tcp
    50075/tcp:            7535

To make `usermod` take effect, the user involved should logout and re-login

    # groupadd -g 503 ime
    # usermod -g 'init_login_gid' -G 'group1, group2' loginname
    # usermod -g ime -G ime,root chenming
    # chown -R chenming:ime /home/chenming
    # id chenming

# shells
Bourne-type shells, such as bash , usually have $ in the prompt. The C shell
uses % (but tcsh users often use `>`). 

The shell doesn't start a separate process to run internal commands (such as
cd). External commands require the shell to fork and exec (such as ls) a
new subprocess.

# Linux/Unix booting
When you first log in to a Unix system, the login program performs various
security measures. First, login checks to see if you are not the root user and
whether the file /etc/nologin exists \(it is created by the shutdown command to
indicate that the system is being brought down for maintenance\). If both of
these conditions are true, the login program prints the contents of that file to
the terminal, and the login fails. 

Second, login checks to see if there are any special conditions on your login
attempt (which may be defined in /etc/usertty or /etc/securetty), such as on
which tty you're coming in. Linux systems do this, for example. Some systems
(such as Darwin and other BSD-based systems) also check /etc/fbtab and may
restrict your access to any devices listed in that file. These systems may also
log failed login attempts to a file, such as /var/log/failedlogin, if it exists.
login may also record the time of login in the file /var/log/lastlog, make an
entry in the file /var/run/utmp, showing that you are successfully logged in
\(it is removed once you log out\), and append the utmp entry to the file
/var/log/wtmp , showing that you logged in. This wtmp record will be updated on
logout, showing the duration of your login session.

If the file .hushlogin exists in the user's home directory, the login will be
quiet; otherwise, the following sequence of events will occur. If the system has
any special copyright information to display, it will be printed to the
terminal, followed by the message of the day (usually stored in /etc/motd ), and
the user's last login time and system of origin \(from the wtmp file, as
discussed in the previous paragraph\). 

Finally, if all other checks have passed and restrictions have been performed,
login starts a shell for you. Which shell depends on what is set in your
user database entry (/etc/passwd, NIS, or possibly NetInfo under Darwin). If
the shell specified for you is not interactive (Section 3.4), you may well
be denied a command line.  This is common for POP and ftp-only user
accounts, where /bin/true and /bin/false are often specified as shells to
disallow shell logins from those accounts. 

# rlogin
Don't have a terminal with multiple windows or another terminal close to your
desk? You can get the same result by using rlogin, su or telnet to log in to
your host again from the same terminal. 

    % vi .cshrc 
    ...Make edits to the file...
    % rlogin localhost 
    ...Logs you in to your same account...
    An error message 
    % logout 
    Connection closed.
    % vi .cshrc 
    ...Edit to fix mistake...

# Grep

    $ grep -v        # reVersed, find items without pattern
    $ grep -q        # quiet, answer found or not by $?
    $ grep -h        # do not print filename 
    $ grep -l        # just print filename 
    $ zgrep regex xxx.gz    # search compressed file
    $ zcat                  # cat compressed file
    $ rm -i $(grep -l 'This file is obsolete' * )

# Linux hostname
/etc/hosts is for mapping IP addresses to hosts.  To change the hostname, it
depends on the distro you're running. it's usually /etc/hostname or
/etc/HOSTNAME or /etc/sysconfig/network. hostname command can temporary change
hostname.

# Awesome Linux commands

    $ mkisofs -V LABEL -r dir | gzip > cdrom.iso.gz 
    #Create cdrom image from contents of dir

    $ mount -o loop cdrom.iso /mnt/dir 
    #Mount the cdrom image at /mnt/dir (read only)

    $ gzip -dc cdrom.iso.gz | cdrecord -v dev=/dev/cdrom - 
    #Burn cdrom image (use dev=ATAPI -scanbus to confirm dev)

# awk tips

    split(string, chars, "")        # convert string into array of chars
    split("", array)                # empty array
    split(string, fields, "[ ]")    # use a single blank as separator

# ls commands 

    $ ls -u             # access time, visit time
    $ ls -c             # modify time, time of inode metadata modified
    $ ls -l             # change time, time of file content changed 
    $ cp -p             # preserve change time of file
    $ chroot            # prevent malicious escape to the parent directory
    $ bash -n scriptname    # check bash script syntax

# sudo
Take the time to learn a bit about sudo itself and the /etc/sudoers file. You
should always use visudo to edit your /etc/sudoers file. Like vipw, visudo
locks the file so that only one person can edit it at a time, and it performs
some syntax sanity checks before replacing the production file so that you
don’t accidentally lock yourself out of your system.

ssh: mkdir -m 0700 -p ~/.ssh. Your ~/.ssh directory must be mode 0700 or OpenSSH
will complain. It’s not a bad idea to use chmod 0600 ~/.ssh/authorized_keys as
well.

Automatically log out. Set the $TMOUT environment variable in /etc/bashrc or
~/.bashrc to the number of seconds of inactivity before ending the session.

    $ declare -r TMOUT=3600     # or
    $ readonly TMOUT=3600

# View CPU information

    $ less /proc/cpuinfo
    $ pstree
    $ ps -u chenming

# date

    $ refdate="2007-09-03"
    $ sec=`date -d "$refdate" +s`
    $ let sec=$((sec - N*24*60*60))
    $ date -d "1970-01-01 UTC $sec seconds" +'%Y%m%d'
    $ date -d "$refdate $N day ago" +'%Y%m%d'   

    function prevdate() {
        local ref="$1"
        local num="${2:-1}"
        local refdate=`date -d "${ref}" +'%Y-%m-%d'`
        date -d "$refdate $num days ago" +'%Y%m%d'
    }

# install deb package

    $ sudo dpkg -i package.deb

# check memory usage

    $ top
    $ cat /proc/meminfo
    $ free

# remove no longer needed packages

	sudo apt-get autoremove

# security coding

  set "system" function showld never be used from a set-user-ID or a
  set-group-ID program

# tty
tty stands for teletypewriter, an early form of terminal.

The first text editors were "line-oriented", such as "ed" and later "ex". "Vi"
was developed later, based on "ex", and was screen-oriented. It used the
redrawable ability of cathode ray tube (CRT) displays to show text one screen
at a time.

# errno in signal handler
When call functions that changes errno in signal handler, we should save and
restore error.

# ssh-copy-id
install your public key in a remote machine's authorized_keys

    $ ssh-copy-id mchen@msl.cewit.stonybrook.edu

# setup ssh tunnel

    $ cat >> ~/.ssh/config
    Host msl
    HostName msl.cewit.stonybrook.edu
    User mchen

    Host chevron8
    User mchen
    ProxyCommand ssh msl -W %h:%p
    $
    $ ssh-copy-id chevron8

# split and merge pdf

	$ sudo aptitude install pdftk
	$ pdftk largepdfile.pdf burst
	$ pdftk *.pdf cat output onelargepdfile.pdf

# install tmux under home

	$ wget https://github.com/downloads/libevent/libevent/libevent-2.0.21-stable.tar.gz
	$ tar xzf libevent-2.0.21-stable.tar.gz
	$ cd libevent-2.0.21-stable
	$ DIR=/home/mchen/software
	$ ./configure --prefix=$DIR
	$ make && make install

	$ wget tmux
	$ ./configure CFLAGS='-I${DIR}/include/' LDFLAGS="-L${DIR}/lib" --prefix=${DIR}
	$ make && make install

# create zip file

	 $ zip archivefile1 doc1 doc2 doc3
